Welcome to Sup! Here's how to actually use it.

First, try running 'sup'. Assuming this is your first time, you'll be
confronted with a mostly blank screen, and a little message at the
bottom telling you that you have no messages. That's because Sup
doesn't have any messages in its index yet.

If you want to play around a little at this point, you can press 'b'
to cycle between buffers and 'x' to kill a buffer. There's probably
not too much interesting there, but there's a log buffer with some
cryptic messages. You can also press '?' at any point to get a list of
keyboard commands, but in the absense of any email, these will be
pretty useless. When you're done, press 'q' to quit.

Let's add some messages. In order for Sup to know about an email, it
must be in the index. In order for Sup to load them it the index, it
must know the "source" which holds them. The way Sup works is that the
index holds all the information that is necessary to search, and all
the state we have about the message (labels, read/unread, etc.), but
doesn't contain the message itself. When you search or show your
inbox, Sup just talks to the index (stored locally on disk). When you
view a message, Sup then goes back to the source and requests it in
full. Sup also periodically polls the sources for new messages.

So let's tell Sup about some sources. Run 'sup-import' with a URI
pointing to an email source. The URI should be of the form:
- mbox://path/to/a/filename, for an mbox file on disk. (You can also
  just provide the filename).
- imap://imap.server/folder or imaps://secure.imap.server/folder for
  an IMAP server. (The folder can be blank.)
- mbox+ssh://remote.machine/path/to/a/filename for a remote mbox file.

There are a few important arguments to sup-import when adding a
source. The first decision you need to make is whether you want
messages to be marked as new or not. If you specify --force-read, all
messages imported at this time will be marked as read. (New messages
pulled from this source at a later date will be new, of course.) The
default is to retain the read/unread status as it is in the source.

The second decision is whether you want messages from this source to
be archived or not. An archived message is one that does not show up
in your inbox. If you specify --force-archive, messages imported at
this time will not appear in the inbox. If you specify --archive,
messages imported at *any* time will not appear in the inbox. (This is
useful for sources that contain high-traffic mailing lists that you
don't want "polluting" your inbox.)

Now run sup-import. (You can run it on multiple sources at once.) If
it requires a username and password for the source, it will prompt you
for one. Either way, it will add that source to Sup, and immediately
start loading messages from that source into the index. Depending on
the size of the source, this may take some time. Don't worry! This is
a one-time process, and all the computation done now makes operating
on the index faster.

Now, before we run 'sup' again, take a moment to edit your
~/.sup/config.yaml file. Replace "Your Name Here" with your name,
"your.email.here@domain.tld" with your email address, and fill in your
.signature file if you choose. You can also set the default editor.
(If you have multiple email addresses that correspond to this account,
you can specify them under :alternates, and if you have multiple
separate email-receiving accounts, you can add new items to :accounts,
but that requires a little YAML knowledge and is beyond the scope of
this introduction.)

Ok, we're finally ready to run Sup! Run 'sup'. You should see messages
being loaded into your "inbox" from the index. Congratulations!

There are two things that are worth understanding at this point.
First, Sup does not use folders. Instead, messages can have any number
of labels applied to them. Rather than viewing a folder, you view the
results of a search. So your inbox is simply the set of messages that
have the 'inbox' label applied to them.

Second, Sup groups together messages into threads. You rarely operate
on an individual message in Sup. Each line in the inbox is a thread,
and the number in parentheses is the number of messages in that
thread. (If there's no number, it means there's just one message.)

So use the up and down arrows to highlight a thread. ('j' and 'k' do
the same thing, and 'J' and 'K' will scroll the whole window. Even the
left and right arrow keys do something useful!) By default, Sup only
loads as many threads as it takes to fill the window; if you'd like to
load more, press 'M'. You can also hit tab to cycle between only new
messages.

Press enter to view a thread once you've highlighted it. You'll notice
that all messages in the thread are displayed together. By default,
only the new messages in a thread are expanded; the others are
hidden. Press 'E' to expand / collapse all messages, and 'N' to expand
only the new messages. Use the arrow keys just as before to move
around the message. You'll also notice that Sup hides quoted text and
signatures. If you highlight a particular one, you can press enter to
expand it. You can also press 'o' to open every hidden section in a
particular message.

A few other useful commands while viewing a thread: press 'd' to
toggle a detailed header. If you've scrolled too far to the right,
press '[' to jump all the way to the left. Finally, for threads that
are very large, you can press 'n' and 'p' to jump forward and backward
between open messages.

Now press 'x' to kill that buffer. You should see the inbox again.  If
you don't, you can cycle through the buffers by pressing 'b', or you
can press 'A' to see a list of all buffers and simply select the
inbox.

There are many operations you can perform on threads beyond just
viewing them. To archive a thread, press 'a'. The thread will
disappear from your inbox, but will still appear in search results. If
someone replies to the thread, it will reappear in your inbox (with
the new message in its proper place).

To kill a thread, press '&'. Killed threads will never come back to
your inbox, even if people reply (but will still be searchable). Useful
for those interminable threads that you really have no interest in.

If a thread is spam, press 'S'. It will disappear and won't come
back. It won't even appear in search results, unless you explicitly
search for spam.

You can also star a thread by pressing '*'. Starred threads are
displayed with a little yellow asterix next to them, but otherwise
have no functionality. (But you can also search for them
easily---we'll see how in a moment).

As I mentioned before, messages have labels. To edit the labels for
(all the messages in) a thread, press 'l'. Type in the labels as a
sequence of space-separated words. To cancel the input, press
control-G.

Many of these operations can be applied to a group of threads. Press
't' to tag a thread. Tag a couple, then press ';' to apply the next
command to the set of threads. ';t', of course, will untag all tagged
messages.

Ok, let's talk about labels and searching. Press 'L' 
